---
title: Reports of RSS/Atom's death are greatly exaggerated
date: 2024-02-16
---

I'm not old, but I remember when people said "my web log." That then
became "blog."[^1]

I subscribe via a feed reader[^2] to a collection of individual blogs,
and a few aggregators (but only the top posts of the week).

This strikes a good balance of interesting reads (mostly technology
and programming related), and keeping my finger on the pulse of what
the tech world is excited about (big data, IoT, NoSQL, cloud, VR,
crypto, AI, insert trend du jour here).

It also means I only have about 30 or so new posts per day appearing
in my feed, and they can be flicked through in a few minutes. I'll
bookmark ones that sound interesting to read for when I'm at home and
sitting comfortably. "Screen time" and FOMO are not problems for
me.[^3] I can also setup filters for bullshit content mill
authors.[^5]

However, about once a fortnight--on my RSS feed--I regularly see a
post debating why RSS has died, or why it's making a comeback. There's
usually related discussion about adoption, the user experience, or
corporate interests (Google Reader, or $popular_newspaper).[^4]

For people who digest things over a course of days or weeks, rather
than doom scrolling and posting their knee-jerk reactions, the
situation for a very broad set of people is that RSS/Atom is in the
background doing what it's supposed to. No VC-backed endless growth, or
decline.

Feeds continue to serve their modest purpose.

For people lamenting the death of Google Reader, or that Mozilla
dropped the built-in feed icon and reader from Firefox: don't. Be
thankful that the Great Eye of Business has lost interest in RSS and
does not want to meddle in it anymore.

[^1]: Which I thought was "so lame" at the time. But I've grown up
    since then. A little bit.

[^2]: I get my other news from more traditional sources in dead tree
    format. And I don't use Facebook, Instagram, TikTok, Twitter,
    Threads, or other drugs. According to The Economist, people are no
    longer posting or getting their news from social networks anyway;
    it's all happening in private chat groups.

[^3]: Partly thanks to Musk completely bungling Twitter, which was
    already on thin ice for me. I (along with many others) migrated to
    Mastodon, and then lost interest in any kind of "microblogging" at
    all. Other people have just deleted their accounts. Similar to
    Reddit, really. Tech communites have largely moved to Discourse.

[^4]: You'll see a similar pattern of discussion about email, another
    distributed internet standard. Unfortunately Big Business is
    presently a spectre looming over email.

[^5]: Such as Substack, Medium, etc. For future readers who might not
    know what these platforms were, they're just another type of
    blogging service, but are extremely aggressive at bothering you to
    "sign up to my newsletter" (literally--not a joke), and the posts
    are almost all inflammatory, self-promotion, or attempts to direct
    you to a product or service.
