---
date: 2024-05-12
title: Projects
description: A hopefully complete list of all the software projects I worked on
---

It might be a "getting old[-er]" thing, but I've recently started feeling like documenting the complete set of software projects I've worked on that I remember.
Not as a CV (an advertisement of paid work), but a comprehensive list of *everything*.

I'll start with the old stuff and continuously make updates a little bit per day.
After a few weeks I should be done.

<!-- markdown-toc start - Don't edit this section. Run M-x markdown-toc-refresh-toc -->
**Table of Contents**

- [2023](#2023)
    - [copy-paste-sync](#copy-paste-sync)
    - [hell](#hell)
- [2021](#2021)
    - [proclog](#proclog)
    - [lexx](#lexx)
    - [hag](#hag)
- [2020](#2020)
    - [inflex](#inflex)
- [2019](#2019)
    - [novella](#novella)
    - [streaming-parsers](#streaming-parsers)
    - [forge](#forge)
    - [env-args](#env-args)
    - [dynamic](#dynamic)
    - [webshow](#webshow)
- [2018](#2018)
    - [hex-server](#hex-server)
    - [sdl2-sprite](#sdl2-sprite)
    - [caseof](#caseof)
    - [rocksdb-haskell-ng](#rocksdb-haskell-ng)
    - [phase](#phase)
    - [audit](#audit)
    - [codeparty](#codeparty)
    - [duta](#duta)
    - [prana](#prana)
    - [intero](#intero)
    - [cron-daemon](#cron-daemon)
- [2017](#2017)
    - [snappy](#snappy)
    - [liquid-post](#liquid-post)
    - [tdiff](#tdiff)
    - [vado](#vado)
    - [jl](#jl)
    - [duet](#duet)
- [2016](#2016)
    - [purify](#purify)
    - [labels](#labels)
    - [org-focus](#org-focus)
- [2015](#2015)
    - [descriptive](#descriptive)
    - [stack](#stack)
    - [path](#path)
    - [xinput-conduit](#xinput-conduit)
    - [conditions](#conditions)
    - [haskell-trace](#haskell-trace)
- [2014](#2014)
    - [clockin](#clockin)
    - [present](#present)
    - [ace](#ace)
    - [hl](#hl)
    - [formatting](#formatting)
    - [hindent](#hindent)
    - [foreign-store](#foreign-store)
    - [shell-conduit](#shell-conduit)
    - [lucid](#lucid)
    - [wrap](#wrap)
    - [gmail](#gmail)
    - [osdkeys](#osdkeys)
    - [keyboard-stats](#keyboard-stats)
    - [ghc-server](#ghc-server)
    - [ats-examples](#ats-examples)
    - [carvo](#carvo)
- [2013](#2013)
    - [ini](#ini)
    - [pure-io](#pure-io)
    - [god-mode](#god-mode)
    - [structured-haskell-mode](#structured-haskell-mode)
    - [haskellnews](#haskellnews)
    - [ircbrowse](#ircbrowse)
    - [snap-app](#snap-app)
    - [cabal-sign](#cabal-sign)
- [2012](#2012)
    - [sourcemap](#sourcemap)
    - [fay](#fay)
    - [scrobble](#scrobble)
    - [bdo](#bdo)
- [2011](#2011)
    - [pdfinfo](#pdfinfo)
    - [chrisdone-xmonad](#chrisdone-xmonad)
    - [flo](#flo)
    - [freenect](#freenect)
    - [hulk](#hulk)
    - [ji](#ji)
    - [pgsql-simple](#pgsql-simple)
    - [css](#css)
    - [url-generic](#url-generic)
    - [hog](#hog)
- [2010](#2010)
    - [tryhaskell](#tryhaskell)
    - [jquery-console](#jquery-console)
    - [lisk](#lisk)
- [2009](#2009)
    - [asp-mode](#asp-mode)
- [2008](#2008)
    - [kibro](#kibro)
    - [lojbot](#lojbot)
- [2006](#2006)
    - [slsk/soulski](#slsksoulski)
    - [wdn](#wdn)

<!-- markdown-toc end -->

# 2023

## copy-paste-sync

I wrote this trivial tool called
[copy-paste-sync](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/copy-paste-sync)
that can copy/paste between systems by always keeping the clipboard in
sync. It basically just watches the clipboard for changes and then
POSTs the content to interested parties. At work I use a MacBook, but
I also have my Linux laptop next to it, so being able to copy/paste
between the two is handy.

## hell

[Hell](https://github.com/chrisdone/hell) is a shell scripting
language that is a tiny dialect of Haskell that I wrote for my own
shell scripting purposes. Full blog post about it
[here.](https://chrisdone.com/posts/hell/)

# 2022

## envy

I found myself using tools that want to control my shell environment
at work in order to run commands properly. This makes it annoying to
simply run a command from Emacs. So I wrote a mini tool called
[envy](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/envy) that simply saves
the environment generated by such a tooling setup, and then execute
any command with the same environment later.

# 2021

## proclog

While consulting on a project that ran executables deeply within it, I
wrote [proclog](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/proclog) as a
kind of 'smarter tee'. I haven't used this for a while and it isn't
maintained anymore, but it was handy in the moment.

## lexx

I wrote a project called
[lexx](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/lexx), which lexes Haskell
code, specifically `Show` instances, but it can handle fairly
unstructured input, and still pretty print it with colours
nicely. It's good for dev logs or general pretty printers.

## hag

I fiddled about with a project called
[hag](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/hag), "Haskell ag", which
would let one "grep" Haskell files for identifiers, and exclude
strings, comments, etc. by lexing them properly. I haven't used this
for a while, it's currently in the freezer.

# 2020

## inflex

This was my dream project that I planned on being The Big One for my
30s. It involves all my skills: web, services, parsers, type checkers,
interpreters, UI, etc. I had a business, a registered trademark,
lawyers draft up Ts&Cs and a privacy policy, accountant, Stripe
account, etc. It was going to be an online spreadsheet
competitor. [Inflex](https://chrisdone.com/posts/inflex/) was going to
be a big hit.

I had a kid and then it took a back seat, I couldn't financially
justify paying an accountant and for all the services when I only had
an hour a week to dabble in it. So I packed it in.

However, it has some of my best work. The compiler pipeline is
beautiful. Some of the implementation is wonderful. The design
trade-offs are brilliant and I researched everything over 2 years. The
[archive repo is here](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/inflex).

<!-- ## early -->

# 2019

## novella

For some bizarre reason, I thought it would be a good idea to make a
structured editor in the terminal called
[novella](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/novella): the big idea
was to define a simple grammar for any language and get a structured
editor out of it, like this:

```haskell
grammar :: Grammar
grammar = $(checkGrammar $ runDefine $ mdo
  -- General expression
  expression       <- rule "Expression" (ChoiceSchema [variable, constructor, parentheses
                                                      ,tuple, let', application, string])
  application      <- rule "Application" (CompositeSchema [expression, expression])
  parentheses      <- rule "Parentheses" (CompositeSchema [openParenSchema, expression, closeParenSchema])
  -- Tuple
  tuple            <- rule "Tuple" (CompositeSchema [openParenSchema, tupleElements, closeParenSchema])
  tupleElements    <- rule "Tuple elements" (ListSchema expression ",")
  -- Identifiers
  variable         <- rule "Variable" (IdentifierSchema "Variable")
  constructor      <- rule "Constructor" (IdentifierSchema "Constructor")
```

## streaming-parsers

I wrote, along with Michael Snoyman, some streaming JSON/YAML parsers,
in a package I called
[streaming-parsers](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/streaming-parsers),
with the express intent to avoid security issues implied by packages
like `aeson` which consume the whole input given by the user. This
package never got used, but I did end up using `reparsec` elsewhere,
which was like a parsec that streams like attoparsec, but works on any
token rather than Text/ByteString. Arguably megaparsec fits that niche
these days, although I find megaparsec kind of awkward and I can never
remember how to use it.

## forge

I wrote [forge](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/forge) as my
answer to modernizing formlets,[^7] after the world forgot about
multi-page web apps and switched to frontend/backend stratification.

However, it introduces a few novel ideas:

* Static checking of the uniqueness of names within a form
* Errors can go both up *and* down in the form, meaning you can "send"
  a validation error from above down to the input that caused it
* Selective-like behavior
* Typed handling of optional vs required fields, which in other
  libraries is a bit wishy-washy

## vado

[Vado](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/vado) is a demonstration
program that is able to load a web page up and render it like in the
early 90's. It supports laying out text, different font sizes for
headings, inline and block elements, hyperlinks, bold and italics. It
supports mousewheel scrolling, too.

I wrote this in a couple evenings, because it seemed straight-forward
to do so given the libraries available at the time. Also, there's an
inarticulate gut feeling I have that tells me maybe it's worth
celebrating these days in which the web is still viewable in its
simplest, earliest form.

## env-args

A simple tool called
[env-args](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/env-args) that would
convert environment variables to program arguments. With this, it
became trivial to either pass --foo arguments or PROGRAM_FOO
variables. Used for a client.

## dynamic

Partly as a joke, partly serious, I made a package called
[dynamic](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/dynamic) which gives
you dynamic types in Haskell. It makes it trivial to explore unknown
data in Haskell. I've never used it, but in principal it is
interesting.

## webshow

I made a simple tool to generate a hierchical data structure browser
for Haskell `Show` output (similar to [present](#present)), and called
it [webshow](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/webshow). I have
occasionallly resurrected this, when I need to explore really hairy
Haskell data structures.

# 2018

## hex-server

I can't explain some of the motivations for my projects. I wrote
[hex-server](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/hex-server) which
was a ground-up implementation of Xorg-server in Haskell. I have no
idea why. Curiosity, I guess.

## sdl2-sprite

I was fiddling about with sdl2 at this
time. [sdl2-sprite](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/sdl2-sprite)
just repeats a sprite for you (see the README gif). I think there are
other tools around for this, but I found this one just did exactly
what I wanted while making a sprite in InkScape.

## caseof

The [caseof](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/caseof) package is
just a proof of concept to test whether I could avoid lens and get
what I wanted: trivially ask whether a value is of a particular
constructor and if so, return a `Maybe` of the slots. Answer is: yes,
you can. Does anyone use it? No, lens is too popular.

## rocksdb-haskell-ng

[rocksdb-haskell-ng](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/rocksdb-haskell-ng)
was needed for some cryptocurrency client, who were inadvisedly using
rocksdb, in Haskell, and the existing package was, well, neither
stable or efficient. I rewrote it from scratch, with stability and
performance in mind. I'm quite proud of the work I did on this, it was
good work.

## phase

Another case of having too much time on my hands
perhaps. [phase](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/phase) basically
provides a frontend to Emacs in your browser. It's not as native as
the GTK or terminal frontends, but the latency wasn't too bad. I'm not
sure I'll ever pick this up again. But it was surprisingly usable.

## audit

I had to audit a number of projects at FP Complete. This [emacs
mode](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/audit) helped me
interactively mark any selection of any file as viewed, accepted or
problematic, with comments. I would still use this today if I need to
audit or heavily review a project.

## codeparty

When teaching Haskell to companies at FP Complete, it was handy to
have everyone type out the answer to an exercise live on screen. For
that I made
[codeparty](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/codeparty), which was
a bit like a mass screen share, but more efficient, and ensured
everyone had the same editing experience. I would use this again if I
needed to teach Haskell again.

## duta

I wrote my own email server called
[duta](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/duta), which was about
being able to self-host email. I actually ran it for years; it was
only because LetsEncrypt at the time was harder to use and required
upgrades and maintenance that I gave up on it, but for a while I was
reading my mail with my own Haskell-made email web and Emacs client.

## prana

I was really into the idea of being able to interpret Haskell within
Haskell, so I made a project called
[prana](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/prana) which would
    compile GHC Haskell down to STG, convert that STG to an internal
format, and then interpret it. It turns out, there are quite a few
"implicit" things in STG that you just have to know, figure out or ask
around about. The GHC internals change far too often, so I gave up on
this. But I took a good crack at it.

## intero

[intero](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/intero) was my
"complete" (_intero_ is Italian for 'whole') Haskell IDE in Emacs. I
was given space at FP Complete to work on it as a product to solve the
whole Haskell tooling issue. It was actually a brilliant project, and
worked on almost everything, and rarely if ever broke. There was a lot
of Emacs Lisp, and a modicum of Haskell in a GHCi fork I called
`intero`.

Some of that Elisp still lives on in my Emacs config, but the project
itself I sunsetted some years ago after I was subjected to one final
GHC upgrade and could not bare to port my code over to yet another GHC
API API change. I just gave up.

But on the whole it was a great project and had 1k users at least.

## cron-daemon

I wanted a handy way to have a 'service' run and re-run easily, which
I called
[cron-daemon](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/cron-daemon). This
was my first tool that I statically built with musl. I haven't used
this for a while, but I might use it in the future. It can be used in
combination with `stack build --file-watch --exec 'cron-daemon ..'` to
cause a service to restart after recompiling.

# 2017

## snappy

A brief experiment called
[snappy](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/snappy) to try out
Reflex-like FRP with SVG. It's not as easy as you think to do this,
and there are all sorts of gotchas. Where possible, don't DIY
FRP. It's hard.

## liquid-post

I wrote a post about Liquid Haskell for FP Complete, but [this
repo](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/liquid-post) shows all the
examples and they are quite good, I think.

## tdiff

I still use this
sometimes. [tdiff](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/tdiff) just
gives you timing between lines of output from a process. This can be
really good for checking timings of other programs than your own.

## vado

In an exhibition of sorts, I made a 90s-style web browser called
[vado](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/vado) ("I go" in Italian),
which can show rich text documents and browse around. I think it's
pretty cool that I was able to do this in a few hundred lines of code,
and it works/worked on Windows, macOS and Linux, too!

## jl

I like `jq` a bit, but I always found myself just wishing I had a
basic mini lambda calculus/Haskell. So I wrote a small statically
typed mini language called
[jl](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/jl). I used it for a while,
but somehow I've managed to go years and years without needing to do
JSON munging in scripts or anything. So this project died due to lack
of use. I otherwise think the design and implementation are both good.

## duet

I have no idea why I started working on this, but I wrote a [small
Haskell implementation](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/duet)
called Duet, which is helpful for teaching because it has a
substitution-based interpreter. It was based on Typing Haskell in
Haskell, which was refactored a bit, more types added, etc. It's quite
a viable Haskell implementation. Great for teaching.

I never found other uses for it, because frankly I don't fully
understand the type-checker, because I didn't author it from
scratch. Future projects involved writing one from scratch, which I do
understand. See [Inflex](#inflex) or [Hell](#hell).

<!-- ## xeno -->

# 2016

## purify

I was doing more PureScript dev in 2016, so I made
[purify](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/purify), which was
basically stackage+stack, but for PureScript. It was popular for a
while, but then the main PureScript package manager gained these
capabilities and it wasn't necessary anymore. But it was a solid
project, I think.

## labels

As part of proving out whether Haskell could really be useful as a
data analysis language (answer: not really), I wrote
[labels](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/labels), which is an
extensible records package, along with CSV, JSON capabilities. It
worked, actually, but nothing much came of it after that.

## org-focus

In an effort to track all my time on projects, I wrote
[org-focus](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/org-focus) for
Emacs. It was a bit like org-agenda, but included time spent,
estimates, and stuff that a consultant might need. I don't track my
time with such fine-grain detail these days, so I stopped using it.

# 2015

## descriptive

I noticed that optparse-applicative, formlets, yaml/json parsing,
etc. were all a type of self-describing parser. Hence
[descriptive](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/descriptive). I
think the task of generalizing all of these under one framework is
harder than I anticipated, despite the grand vision, and the project
died.

## stack

At FP Complete, clients wanted a tool that covered all their
use-cases, which typically involved multi-package projects and wanting
to avoid the cabal solver. Motivated by previous success with internal
tools,[^6] we decided to make a proper tool and decided the name would
be 'stack' (from stackage). I made [the first commit for
Stack](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/stack/commit/cb95f21855e23c715a106bb484b307623529e323). I
worked on it for a year or two, alongside many people at FP Complete
like Michael Sloan, Manny Borsboom, Dan Burton and Michael Snoyman,
and I have used it ever since. Most everyone else did the bulk of the
work, I only kick started the basics (reading cabal files, GHCi
support, things like that).

The first version used Shake, but we discovered it was very hard to
reason about what it was doing. Michael rewrote the scheduler to not
need Shake, and did further work to basically make Stack a bit like
Nix and lock down all packages, package sets into with SHA256
hashes. I wrote [casa.stackage.org](https://casa.stackage.org/) to
store content-addressed blobs of package files for Stack to later
retrieve.

It went on to become the build tool of choice for Haskell projects for
some years. It's only in recent years that cabal-install has caught up
with feature parity and the sentiment seems to be shifting back to
cabal-install. I still use stack because the ergonomics are more
designed for my workflow.

## path

As part of my work on stack, we deal with filepaths a lot, so I wrote
the [path package](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/path), [with a
blog post motivating it](https://chrisdone.com/posts/path-package/). I
was pretty happy with this package, it solved a real need that
initially a lot of people were sceptical of, but colleagues told me it
saved their asses a few times.

That package is still maintained to my knowledge.

## xinput-conduit

https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/xinput-conduit

## conditions

https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/conditions

## haskell-trace

https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/haskell-trace

# 2014

## clockin

I wrote [clockin](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/clockin) as a
command-line app to be able to clockin and clockout of any task. I
used this for a while, maybe a year, before losing interest in
clocking my time so accurately.

## present

After looking at CLIM (Common Lisp Interface Manager), I really liked
the idea of being able to _present_ a value with multiple
interpretations. That's what
[present](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/present) was about. I
used template-haskell to inspect any type and derive a representation
for it. Even `ByteString` had multiple views, e.g. as a list of bytes,
as UTF-8 text, hex, a pointer, etc.

I kind of ran myself into the ground with this when it came to higher
kinded types. I got stuck and lost interest. I would love to pick it
up again some day.

## ace

In the afterglow of growing bored of Lojban, but still enamoured by
formal human languages, I got into Attempto (Latin for 'I dare')
Controlled English. I ended up writing a parser package for it in
Haskell [here](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/ace). It's
surprisingly comprehensive, I wrote [a blog post on
it](https://chrisdone.com/posts/attempto-controlled-english/). It even
permits passing a record of parsers, permitting the user to define
their own vocabulary and syntax for terms.

When I wrote it, use of such things was questionable. Combine it with
a logic database and *poof*, magic understanding! In reality, not
quite. Arguably, the use for such a thing in today's brave new world
of LLMs is even more questionable.

But I suppose there still lies a small place in my heart for a formal
language that is also readable by anyone who speaks English.

## hl

The Haskell web site has already been a bit crap. Today, it's
okay. It's been much worse. During that period of much-worseness, I
wrote [hl](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/hl), an alternative
Haskell homepage, complete with
[reasoning](https://chrisdone.com/posts/haskell-lang/), which I
launched at haskell-lang.org as an alternative competing page, due to
making no progress at all for years in trying to get access to
haskell.org itself. Eventually, it did become the Haskell homepage due
to some diplomatic heroics. In that sense, I suppose the project was a
success. There was, as expected, lots of politics surrounding it, but
that's always the case with home pages of community projects.

## formatting

I thought that the
[HoleyMonoid](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/HoleyMonoid) package
was very neat, and decided it would make a perfect type-safe
printf-like package. I called it
[formatting](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/formatting), after
Common Lisp's FORMAT.

Actually, it turned out that despite the neat trick, I really doing
like the position-dependent style of printf/FORMAT at all. I prefer
just writing `x <> " and " <> y` instead, or `concat [x, "and",
y]`. So the whole thing became an experiment in novelty, but
ultimately I lost interest and passed the maintainership onto someone
else.

## hindent

[hindent](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/hindent) was my bold
attempt to make a complete pretty printer for Haskell, so that manual
code formatting would be a thing of the past. This was quite a
substantial project and took a lot of work. [The blog
post](https://chrisdone.com/posts/hindent/) explains the motivations,
but I just wanted to type less and get autoformatting. I later went
one step further and limited it to a single style (which is what gofmt
famously did), which I documented
[here](https://chrisdone.com/posts/hindent-5/). I even chose a style
that I didn't like, but that was popular. The decision to enforce just
one style made a lot of people mad.

Years later, there was a remake project called Ormolu[^4], which also
enforced one style. There was subsequently a fork called Fourmolu,
which permitted more style configuration.[^5]

## foreign-store

The
[foreign-store](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/foreign-store)
package is a simple bit of C code wrapped in a Haskell package that
lets you keep a reference to a Haskell object between GHCi reloads,
which I wrote [for the purpose of hot
reloading.](https://chrisdone.com/posts/ghci-reload/) It's actually
still used to this day and maintained by someone else. There are 12
direct dependencies of it on Hackage, mostly various different ways of
doing code reloading.[^3] They're all fancy wrappers around this.

10 years after it had been published and not been touched for just as
long, someone found and fixed a segfaulting bug in the C code. Can you
believe it?

## shell-conduit

I've been wanted to write shell scripts since 2014. This attempt,
[shell-conduit](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/shell-conduit),
was to get all available names in the `PATH`, available as real
Haskell identifiers to run. And then "scripts" would be regular
Haskell programs.

I've since changed my mind that this is a good idea, and see above for
the [Hell](#hell) project.

## lucid

[Lucid](https://github.com/chrisdone/lucid) is still actively
developed, and was motivated by have a uniformity of combinators, like
HTML handling in Common Lisp.

It's also a proper monad transformer, which has a small theoretical
satisfaction to it.

It's one of my projects that is using the [Immutable Publishing
Policy](https://chrisdone.com/posts/ipp/).

## wrap

https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/wrap

## gmail

https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/gmail

## osdkeys

https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/osdkeys

## keyboard-stats

https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/keyboard-stats

## ghc-server

https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/ghc-server

## ats-examples

https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/ats-examples

## carvo

https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/carvo

# 2013

## ini

Back before YAML took over, there wasn't a winning configuration
format. XML had lost its lustre. So I wrote
[ini](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/ini/), which parsed the
simple INI format.

Since, YAML is now de-facto standard (although TOML is floating
around), so I stopped using this.

## pure-io

A small project called
[pure-io](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/pure-io) that provided
a little IO monad that would run as a pure function. I used this for
tryhaskell.org.

## god-mode

After suffering from RSI for a while, I had decided with Emacs I'd
look at my typing with statistics. After a week or so of full day
typing every day, I found that I made a significant proportion of key
chords in succession. I evaluated vim modes and realised that they
depart from Emacs quite a bit or lacked a story for many modes. In the
end I had the thought to make the Ctrl implicitly on all the time, and
this turned out to be undeniably productive and practical in the form
of [god-mode](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/god-mode).

I'm still using it to this day, although it has been folded into my
Emacs config.

## structured-haskell-mode

In similar themes to god-mode, I made a structured editor for Emacs's
haskell-mode that would essentially let one edit Haskell code like
paredit. That used a Haskell parser via haskell-src-exts, and produced
a set of s-expressions for Emacs to convert to a set of markers. The
minor mode was called
[structured-haskell-mode](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/structured-haskell-mode).

## haskellnews

[haskellnews](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/haskellnews) was a
simple web app to list all the sources of blogs, posts, tweets,
etc. about Haskell. I sort of lost interest in social Mead and
therefore stopped running it. But for a while I enjoyed using it.

## ircbrowse

I wrote [ircbrowse](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/ircbrowse) at
ircbrowse.net to be a replacement to the much older
ircbrowse.com.

ircbrowse.com was a great web site for browsing chat logs of various
IRC channels, it was also infamously slow as hell. So a fundamental
motivator was to make something that would be instant, and I succeeded
on that, much to my personal pride.

It could handle about 30 million lines of chat across a few channels
for about 10 years of logs. There were something in the order of 30k
lines of chat from the #haskell channel per month.

I stopped running it after I lost interest in IRC, but it was a very
satisfying project and I learned a lot about PostgreSQL's performance
characteristics in the process.

## snap-app

https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/snap-app

## cabal-sign

https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/cabal-sign

# 2012

## sourcemap

For [fay](#fay), I thought it'd be good to include
[sourcemaps](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/sourcemap), so I
wrote this package as a more or less line-by-line translation of the
reference implementation. The spec itself was very informal. It
worked, though, and performed fairly well.

## fay

I wrote a language called Fay, which was a Haskell without
type-classes that compiled to JavaScript, and used GHC's type system
for the type-checking.

It ended up being quite popular, it garnered its own
[organisation](https://github.com/faylang/), and I had a co-maintainer
called Adam Bergmark, who was very nice and smart.[^1]

I was invited to and went to a conference in Lisbon to give a talk on
it.

FP Complete used it for their IDE which was a web based Haskell IDE,
which is pretty much how I got the job at FP Complete in 2013. A
couple years or so later, after the IDE project petered out, we
stopped using it. There were better options by then (PureScript,
etc.).[^2]

* [Blog post](/posts/fay)

## scrobble

https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/scrobble

## bdo

https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/bdo

# 2011

## pdfinfo

This [utility](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/pdfinfo) package
just launches pdfinfo and parses the output. I needed it for work at
the time.

## chrisdone-xmonad

I was using xmonad in 2011, hence [my
config](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/chrisdone-xmonad) of
course was published on GitHub. Like your Emacs config, it's
traditional to publish your XMonad. I don't use tiling window managers
anymore. But XMonad is a good one.

## flo

I wrote a small tool that would let you annotate your source code and
project a flow diagram, called
[flo](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/flo). This could still be
used today with relative ease, I think. It's language-agnostic. I
never advertised it, though.

## freenect

I bought a Kinect, which was Microsoft's XBox
camera/infra-red-distance viewer hardware. There were C libs, so I
wrote Haskell bindings to it and called it
[freenect](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/freenect). There were
some fun things I made with it.

## hulk

I wrote an IRC server for use at work for us to chat on. We used it
for some years after we all left, until we eventually migrated to
an app called Wire (also written in Haskell).

This was my first proper experience using threading in Haskell and
working on a sockets server in Haskell. I would note that architecting
an IRC server in a nice way remains an unsolved problem in my head. In
any language.

* [GitHub archive](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/hulk)
* [Blog post](/posts/hulk-haskell-irc-server)

## ji

I wrote a library called [Ji](/posts/ji-haskell-web/), which is a
simple concept to write a web app in Haskell that sends commands to a
browser of what DOM changes to make and what events to listen to.

It was taken over by Heinrich Apfelmus and renamed to
[threepenny-gui](https://github.com/HeinrichApfelmus/threepenny-gui),
after which he added many FRP-based things and has likely rewritten
all of it by this point.

## pgsql-simple

https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/pgsql-simple

## css

https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/css

## url-generic

https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/url-generic

## hog

https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/hog

# 2010

## tryhaskell

[tryhaskell.org](https://tryhaskell.org/)

This was a big splash when I made it, it hit the top of some big
subreddits and Hacker News. It was inspired by tryruby.org, which was
made by _whytheluckystiff, the mysterious Rubyist who disappeared
from the community. It runs you through an interactive tutorial about
Haskell basics and checks your answers.

I've been meaning to rewrite this one day, but so far haven't been
sufficiently inspired to do so.

It's been running for 14 years, which is quite a long time.

## jquery-console

Written for Try Haskell, this is
[was](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/jquery-console) dumb
terminal/console-like experience in the browser using JQuery. It still
works correctly to this day, on tablets, phones and computers. I
stopped maintaining it as a separate package years and years ago, but
tryhaskell still works fine.

## lisk

I had enough hubris to think I would be able to write a Lisp syntax on
top of Haskell, and called it [Lisk](/posts/lisk-lisp-haskell).

I was happy with Haskell, but bummed out by its syntax compared to the
beauty of Lisp. That hasn't changed today in 2024.

* [GitHub archive](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/lisk)

# 2009

## asp-mode

https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/asp-mode

# 2008

## kibro

In 2008 I was working for a small sum on a hair salon's new web site,
in Haskell. And I made a very trivial web library called "Kibro" (from
the Lojban "cyberspace"), which sat upon CGI and could be ran from
PHP, which is how I was running it.

* Source code archive: [kibro-0.5.0.tar.gz](/archives/2008/kibro-0.5.0.tar.gz)
* Other links: [Kibro refactoring](https://chrisdone.com/posts/kibro-refactoring/)

## lojbot

Around this time I was an enthusiastic Lojban hobbyist, so I wrote an IRC bot with various capabilities.

* [GitHub archive](https://github.com/chrisdone-archive/lojbot)
* [Blog post](https://chrisdone.com/posts/lojbot/)

# 2006

## slsk/soulski

A project for the Soulseek music sharing network.
Web site, which may not remain long-term: [slsk.sourceforge.net](https://slsk.sourceforge.net/).
Amusingly, it still looks great. [Here's a screenshot.](/images/blog/slsk-screenshot-2007.png)
[Another](/images/blog/slsk.jpeg).
I started writing a C library for Soulseek: [soulseek-library-0.01.zip](/archives/2006/soulski/soulseek-library-0.01.zip)
I started writing a GUI library in C for it: [exgui-library-0.1.zip](/archives/2006/soulski/exgui-library-0.1.zip)
I started writing a CSS parser in C for it: [css-library-prototype-0.01.zip](/archives/2006/soulski/css-library-prototype-0.01.zip)

I originally had big ambitions for this, but later lost interest. It
looks like I planned to rewrite it in Common Lisp, but got bored of
the project before I did.

## wdn

I had a project called 'windows desktop notes' (WDN), that I
originally [wrote in C](/archives/2006/wdm/slsk-code-r110-wdm.zip). It
would overlay some plain text notes on your desktop and you could
click it and get an edit box and then hit Enter to save again.

Then I ported it, or tried to, [to Lisp](/archives/2006/wdn/wdn.lisp).

[^1]: In retrospect I mishandled a situation where Fay was being used
    in production and we were breaking its APIs too often, and I
    blocked Adam's `master` push access to the repo to give me some
    breathing room to slow things down, but this was obviously the
    wrong move, and not how you should treat early collaborators. That
    was my first experience managing a project, so I cut my younger
    self some slack. However, he was very gracious about it in the
    moment.

[^2]: See a complete history [here.](https://chrisdone.com/posts/clientside-programming-haskell/)

[^3]: componentm-devel, espial, essence-of-live-coding, essence-of-live-coding-gloss, essence-of-live-coding-pulse, ghci-websockets, halive, jsaddle-warp, monomer, nvim-hs, rapid

[^4]:  It just had a small technological advantage of being based on GHC's parser, rather than haskell-src-exts, which is always playing catch-up.

[^5]: Which I consider a bit of a setback towards the dream of making style choices a thing of the past. But I think Ormolu will win eventually. Maintaining forks is hard work.

[^6]: Michael had previously built a tool called fpbuild which basically was kind of like a big lock file and was unreasonably effective at building very large Yesod-based projects.

[^7]: Ezra Cooper, Samuel Lindley, Philip Wadler and Jeremy Yallop "An idiom's guide to formlets" Technical Report, EDI-INF-RR-1263.
