---
date: 2018-08-20
title: AI thoughts
description: AI thoughts
author: Chris Done
tags: ai
---


Intelligence is any goal-based behavior informed by evidence.


    intelligence  =    behavior
                          ^  \
            informed by  /    \  satisfies a
                        /      v
                   evidence   goal

The _goal_ is what we give as observers, and we judge how well the
_behavior_ satisfies the goal.

For example, a fire's flame dances without any purpose or goal. We
don't claim that it's avoiding objects or dancing for our pleasure.

To be _informed_ means that behavior satisfying the goal is not random
and is not coincidental, and bares a direct relationship to the
_evidence_.

An example of _random behavior_ would be a fish swimming by moving its
tail left or right in a random sequence such as left, left, left,
right, left, left, right, left. This may or may not swim in a straight
line sometimes, and has no relationship to evidence.

_Coincidental behavior_ would be a predetermined repeating sequence of
steps, but without baring a relationship to the evidence. An example
would be playing four-in-a-row by dropping in pieces left to right in
a repeated sequence until the game is over. It may or may not win
sometimes, against a human.

The creation of intelligence requires an _experiment_ to obtain the
relationship between goal, behavior and evidence. Improvement of
intelligence over time is _learning_. The capture and storage of the
evidence affects the frequency of _experiments_ and the process of
_learning_.

For example, DNA is one way of storing evidence. A biological life
form is born with a mutation to its DNA introducing a new behavior,
this _coincidental behavior_ is successful in some way and that
behavior is passed on to its offspring. In computing terms this is
"static" memory storage. This introduces some intelligence to that
breed of the species. Each generation is an _experiment_, the lineage
as a whole is _learning_.

A complex nervous system, such as a brain, or "dynamic" memory store,
allows for behaviors to be parametrized by some data.

A Saharan desert ant calculates distance (called "path integration")
to their goal and then returns home the same number of steps. If one
adds stilts or shortens their legs, they overshoot or undershoot the
distance.

[this post is incomplete, but upon returning to it, I think I was onto something with clarity]
